This tutorial shows how to use LXC containers on Turris Omnia (but even in general) to host a [Borg backup server](https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/).
If you find any errors, mistakes or security problems in the text, [leave an issue on Github!](https://github.com/monsieurhannes/homepage/blob/main/2021_borg/2021_borg.md)

<!--more-->

1. Install Container Debian 11 Bullseye
   `lxc-create -t download -n borg`
   Pick Debian -> Bullseye -> armv7l

2. Edit `/etc/config/lxc-auto` to:

   ```
   config container
           option name borg
           option timeout 300
           #list command '/bin/command --option'
   ```

   (use vim to edit it)

3. Start the container with `lxc-start borg` and attach to the container with `lxc-attach borg`.

4. Now you're in a Debian environment. First you run `apt update && apt upgrade -y` to stay up to date. Then you can change the password for root with a simple `passwd`. Pick a strong password as this will get used to connect to the Borg server. Install OpenSSH `apt install openssh-server` and [edit the config file to make it possible to connect.](https://bobcares.com/blog/ssh-to-lxc-containers/)

5. Change your hostname from LXC_NAME to something more appropriate: `vi /etc/hostname`
   After that you restart the container. Exit the container with `exit` write `lxc-stop borg` to stop it and `lxc-start borg` to start it again. While you're at it you can even test the SSH connection.

6. To test the SSH-connection you can open a new SSH connection directly into the container without going "via the router". Find your containers IP address in LuCI or with `ip a` inside the container. You can login with `ssh root@<ip>`  and it should show the new hostname in the shell.

7. Now you can install borgbackup with `apt install borgbackup`.

8. Create a folder in the container `mkdir /backup`

9. Exit the container and edit the container config file `vi /srv/lxc/borg/config` add the line:
   `lxc.mount.entry = /backup  /srv/lxc/borg/rootfs/backup none bind 0 0`

10. Now you're ready! The folder `/backup` is your hard drive! Create a folder in `/backup` with `mkdir /backup/borg_01`.

11. Initialize the borg repository: `borg init --encryption=repokey /backup/borg_01` and follow the steps to [initialize and use it](https://borgbackup.readthedocs.io/en/stable/quickstart.html).

To backup to the server, simply write `borg create --stats root@<ip>:/path/to/repo::<name> <to_be_backed_up_folder>`. For example `borg create --stats root@192.168.0.5:/backup/borg_01::Sunday /media/external_01`. The following steps include your userpassword, repository-password and then you can follow the backup running.
